# Tag Cloud Generator
###### Java project completed in Autumn of 2020 to generate HTML and CSS based on user input.
###### Assignment for Ohio State University's sophomore-level Computer Science course, "Software II"
###### Author: Austin Hendricks

## What is it?

This is an interactive terminal application that inputs a text file (.txt file extension) and generates 
a "tag cloud" containing the most frequently appearing words in that file. These words will be displayed 
in a generated HTML file in lexicographical order, and the size of each word in the output will 
correspond to the frequency of that word in the original text document. In other words, the more frequently 
a word appears in the text file, the larger it will be displayed in the output generated by the program.

Hovering over a specific word in the output will display its total count in the text file.
The user of the program specifies how many words shall be displayed in the output (i.e. Top 10 words, Top 40 words, 
Top 100 words, etc). For best results, it is recommended to include no more than 100 words in the output.

## Where is the output?

The program will generate a HTML file as well as a CSS file inside of a folder that is named based upon 
the user-desired output folder name. This output folder will be added within the `/output` directory.

Inside of the output folder, there will be two files: an HTML file and a CSS file. The name of both of these 
files will correspond to the name of the text file being analyzed. For example, if the path to the text file 
you specify is `data/tomsawyer.txt`, then the output files will be named `tomsawyer.html` and `tomsawyer.css`.

## How do I use the program?

1. Copy the path to the text file you would like to use for input (several samples already exist under the `/data` folder).
2. Navigate to the `/TagCloudGenerator` directory and issue the following command: 
```
java src/tagcloud.java
```
4. Follow the application's prompts to input the path to the desired text file, the desired output folder name, 
as well as the number of words to be included in the output. The application will terminate and notify success.
4. Navigate to the `/output` directory and locate the output folder named the same as you specified in the program.
5. Enter the folder and open the HTML file with any web browser.
